[Guide] Add BDSP Advancing the RNG Guide (#187)
zaksabeast/PokemonRNGGuides: guides/Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl/Advancing the RNG.md

---
title: 'Advancing the RNG'
description: 'The different methods the RNG can be advanced and events that influence the RNG'
slug: 'bdsp-advance-rng'
subCategory: 'Basic Knowledge'
---

This is an explanantion of the different ways the RNG can be advanced and influenced in Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. The preferred method to advance the RNG is using the Pokedex, though there are other methods should the Pokedex not be available.

## Character Movement

When the player character is standing still, they will fidget and blink, which will advance the RNG. However, this doesn't advance the RNG very fast, so it is still possible to land on a target advance in places where the RNG is not advanced by anything else. For this reason upstairs of the player's house is recommended for eggs and mystery gifts since your character is the only event advancing the RNG there.

> In addition, bringing up the in-game menu will prevent the player's character from fidgeting, but will not prevent blinks from advancing the RNG. This can help in areas with other events advancing the RNG by preventing extra RNG advances from fidgeting occuring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bringing up the in-game menu will prevent the player's character from fidgeting. This can help reduce the number of rng calls made in noisy areas.
```
